=== Lien PubMed ===
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=10.1016/j.ajog.2022.01.005.

=== Métadonnées ===
Sanchez-Ramos L, Lin L, Vilchez-Lagos G, et al.
Single-balloon catheter with concomitant vaginal misoprostol is the most effective strategy for labor induction: a meta-review with network meta-analysis.
Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2024 Mar;230(3S):S696-S715. doi: 10.1016/j.ajog.2022.01.005. Epub 2023 Jul 16.
                    (
Systematic review
)

=== Abstract ===
OBJECTIVE
: Several systematic reviews and meta-analyses have been conducted to summarize the evidence for the efficacy of various labor induction agents. However, the most effective agents or strategies have not been conclusively determined. We aimed to perform a meta-review and network meta-analysis of published systematic reviews to determine the efficacy and safety of currently employed pharmacologic, mechanical, and combined methods of labor induction.
DATA SOURCES
: With the assistance of an experienced medical librarian, we performed a systematic search of the literature using PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Central Register of Control Trials. We systematically searched electronic databases from inception to May 31, 2021.
STUDY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
: We considered systematic reviews and meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials comparing different agents or methods for inpatient labor induction.
METHODS
: We conducted a frequentist random-effects network meta-analysis employing data from randomized controlled trials of published systematic reviews. We performed direct pairwise meta-analyses to compare the efficacy of the various labor induction agents and placebo or no treatment. We performed ranking to determine the best treatment using the surface under the cumulative ranking curve. The main outcomes assessed were cesarean delivery, vaginal delivery within 24 hours, operative vaginal delivery, hyperstimulation, neonatal intensive care unit admissions, and Apgar scores of <7 at 5 minutes of birth.
RESULTS
: We included 11 systematic reviews and extracted data from 207 randomized controlled trials with a total of 40,854 participants. When assessing the efficacy of all agents and methods, the combination of a single-balloon catheter with misoprostol was the most effective in reducing the odds of cesarean delivery and vaginal birth >24 hours (surface under the cumulative ranking curve of 0.9 for each). Among the pharmacologic agents, low-dose vaginal misoprostol was the most effective in reducing the odds of cesarean delivery, whereas high-dose vaginal misoprostol was the most effective in achieving vaginal delivery within 24 hours (surface under the cumulative ranking curve of 0.9 for each). Single-balloon catheter (surface under the cumulative ranking curve of 0.8) and double-balloon catheter (surface under the cumulative ranking curve of 0.9) were the most effective in reducing the odds of operative vaginal delivery and hyperstimulation. Buccal or sublingual misoprostol (surface under the cumulative ranking curve of 0.9) and the combination of single-balloon catheter and misoprostol (surface under the cumulative ranking curve of 0.9) most effectively reduced the odds of abnormal Apgar scores and neonatal intensive care unit admissions.
CONCLUSION
: The combination of a single-balloon catheter with misoprostol was the most effective method in reducing the odds for cesarean delivery and prolonged time to vaginal delivery. This method was associated with a reduction in admissions to the neonatal intensive care unit.