=== Lien PubMed ===
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=10.1542/peds.2024-068752.

=== Métadonnées ===
Hadland SE, Agarwal R, Raman SR, et al.
Opioid Prescribing for Acute Pain Management in Children and Adolescents in Outpatient Settings: Clinical Practice Guideline.
Pediatrics. 2024 Sep 30:e2024068752. doi: 10.1542/peds.2024-068752.
                    (
Evidence-based guideline
)

=== Abstract ===
This is the first clinical practice guideline (CPG) from the American Academy of Pediatrics outlining evidence-based approaches to safely prescribing opioids for acute pain in outpatient settings. The central goal is to aid clinicians in understanding when opioids may be indicated to treat acute pain in children and adolescents and how to minimize risks (including opioid use disorder, poisoning, and overdose). The document also seeks to alleviate disparate pain treatment of Black, Hispanic, and American Indian/Alaska Native children and adolescents, who receive pain management that is less adequate and less timely than that provided to white individuals. There may also be disparities in pain treatment based on language, socioeconomic status, geographic location, and other factors, which are discussed. The document recommends that clinicians treat acute pain using a multimodal approach that includes the appropriate use of nonpharmacologic therapies, nonopioid medications, and, when needed, opioid medications. Opioids should not be prescribed as monotherapy for children or adolescents who have acute pain. When using opioids for acute pain management, clinicians should prescribe immediate-release opioid formulations, start with the lowest age- and weight-appropriate doses, and provide an initial supply of 5 or fewer days, unless the pain is related to trauma or surgery with expected duration of pain longer than 5 days. Clinicians should not prescribe codeine or tramadol for patients younger than 12 years; adolescents 12 to 18 years of age who have obesity, obstructive sleep apnea, or severe lung disease; to treat postsurgical pain after tonsillectomy or adenoidectomy in patients younger than 18 years; or for any breastfeeding patient. The CPG recommends providing opioids when appropriate for treating acutely worsened pain in children and adolescents who have a history of chronic pain; clinicians should partner with other opioid-prescribing clinicians involved in the patient's care and/or a specialist in chronic pain or palliative care to determine an appropriate treatment plan. Caution should be used when treating acute pain in those who are taking sedating medications. The CPG describes potential harms of discontinuing or rapidly tapering opioids in individuals who have been on stable, long-term opioids to treat chronic pain. The guideline also recommends providing naloxone and information on naloxone, safe storage and disposal of opioids, and direct observation of medication administration. Clinicians are encouraged to help caregivers develop a plan for safe disposal. The CPG contains 12 key action statements based on evidence from randomized controlled trials, high-quality observational studies, and, when studies are lacking or could not feasibly or ethically be conducted, from expert opinion. Each key action statement includes a level of evidence, the benefit-harm relationship, and the strength of recommendation.