=== Lien PubMed ===
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=10.1097/CCM.0000000000006551.

=== Métadonnées ===
Barletta JF, Palmieri TL, Toomey SA, et al.
Society of Critical Care Medicine Guidelines for the Treatment of Heat Stroke.
Crit Care Med. 2025 Feb 1;53(2):e490-e500. doi: 10.1097/CCM.0000000000006551. Epub 2025 Feb 21.
                    (
Evidence-based guideline
)

=== Abstract ===
RATIONALE
: Predicted increases in heat-related weather phenomena will result in increasing heat exposures and heat injuries, like heat stroke. Prompt recognition, early intervention, and evidence-based management are necessary to optimize outcomes.
OBJECTIVES
: The objective of these guidelines was to develop evidence-based recommendations for the treatment of patients with heat stroke.
DESIGN
: The Society of Critical Care Medicine convened a multidisciplinary panel of 18 international clinicians, comprising expertise in critical care, emergency medicine, neurocritical care, surgery, trauma/burn surgery, sports medicine, athletic training, military medicine, nursing, pharmacy, respiratory therapy, and one patient representative. The panel also included a guidelines methodologist specialized in developing evidence-based recommendations in alignment with the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) methodology. Conflict-of-interest policies were strictly followed during all phases of guidelines development including panel selection and voting.
METHODS
: The panel members identified Patient, Intervention, Comparison, and Outcomes questions in two main areas: cooling modalities and medications that affect temperature. A systematic review for each question was conducted to identify the best available evidence, statistically analyze the evidence, and assess the certainty of the evidence using the GRADE methodology. The GRADE evidence-to-decision framework was used to formulate the recommendations. Good practice statements were included to provide additional clinical guidance.
RESULTS
: The panel generated two strong recommendations, five good practice statements and one "only-in-the-context of research" statement. Active cooling measures are recommended over passive cooling methods, with cold- or ice-water immersion achieving the fastest cooling rate. This method should be prioritized where available. In heat stroke patients, there is no evidence to support pharmacological interventions that affect temperature control and they should be avoided.
CONCLUSIONS
: The guidelines task force provided recommendations for the management of patients with heat stroke. These recommendations should be considered along with the patient's clinical status and available resources.