=== Lien PubMed ===
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=10.2147/JPR.S451595.

=== Métadonnées ===
Abebe M, Alemu B, Teku G, et al.
Effectiveness of Single Intravenous Dexamethasone in Prolongation of Spinal Anesthesia for Postoperative Analgesia in Elective Cesarean Section: A Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials.
J Pain Res. 2024 Apr 5;17:1361-1368. doi: 10.2147/JPR.S451595. eCollection 2024.
                    (
Systematic review
)

=== Abstract ===
BACKGROUND
: The analgesic effectiveness of a single perioperative dose of dexamethasone is not clearly defined. The administration of systemic medication like dexamethasone, opioids, and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has a positive effect on the prolongation of postoperative analgesia after cesarean section under spinal anesthesia. A single-dose administration of dexamethasone with moderate to high dose reduces postoperative pain, reduces opioid consumption, and prolongs spinal anesthesia after cesarean delivery.
OBJECTIVE
: The aim of this systematic review was to investigate the effectiveness of single intravenous dexamethasone in prolongation of spinal anesthesia for postoperative analgesia in elective cesarean section.
METHODS
: We conducted a search on PubMed, Google Scholar, the Cochrane Library, Hinari, and review articles on the effectiveness of intravenous dexamethasone for extending spinal anesthesia during elective cesarean sections, until June 2023. The searches were conducted by using keyword (IV dexamethasone OR/AND analgesia OR postoperative pain AND cesarean section OR child birth AND prolongation of spinal anesthesia). The articles included describe the analgesic efficacy of dexamethasone for prolongation of spinal anesthesia during cesarean section.
RESULTS
: A total of 25,384 papers were found using different searching methodologies from different electronic databases. The EndNote reference manager was used to remove duplicates, and 438 articles were selected for screening. Of those, 57 were included for critical evaluation, and 49 were removed with justification. The effectiveness of IV dexamethasone on the prolongation of spinal anesthesia and postoperative analgesia in women undergoing cesarean delivery is the subject of eight RCT studies on 628 parturients that are presented in the chosen journal articles from various countries.
CONCLUSION
: Intravenous dexamethasone administration immediately after clamping of the umbilical cord prolongs the duration of spinal block in patients undergoing cesarean sections and has a significant impact on reduction of postoperative pain severity, opioid consumption, and other pain requirements. When high-dose dexamethasone is administered intravenously, it can overcome complications that may arise after severe pain and increase patient satisfaction by extending the duration of postoperative analgesia and sensory block.