=== Lien PubMed ===
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=10.1213/ANE.0000000000007187.

=== Métadonnées ===
Fiddes RA, McCaffrey N
Preoperative Smoking-Cessation Interventions to Prevent Postoperative Complications: A Quality Assessment and Overview of Systematic Review Evidence.
Anesth Analg. 2024 Oct 9. doi: 10.1213/ANE.0000000000007187.
                    (
Systematic review
)

=== Abstract ===
Multiple systematic reviews have investigated the effectiveness of preoperative interventions for smoking-cessation, although relatively few have focused on the prevention of surgical complications. This overview of systematic reviews aimed to describe the types of smoking interventions studied to prevent postoperative complications, summarize the results, and evaluate the quality of the reviews and strength of evidence to inform clinicians, health practitioners, policy developers, and government bodies. Comprehensive searches of Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, and Johanna Briggs Institute databases were conducted to identify systematic reviews of preoperative smoking-cessation interventions to prevent surgical complications (inception-May 14, 2024). Search results were independently screened by 2 reviewers for articles meeting the eligibility criteria. Data on key review characteristics and included studies were extracted: aim, search strategy, included studies, risk of bias, population, sample size, intervention, comparator, main findings, and conclusions. Quality appraisal of the reviews was undertaken using the AMSTAR 2 tool and evidence certainty was evaluated using Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE). Sixty-seven full-text articles from 838 citations were screened, resulting in 6 included systematic reviews with 12 primary studies reporting postoperative complications. Four reviews which included all primary studies, provided moderate to high strength of evidence. There was high-certainty evidence suggesting interventions started =4 weeks before surgery incorporating multiple behavioral support sessions and pharmacotherapy are needed to prevent postoperative complications, particularly the incidence of surgical site infections. High-certainty evidence also indicates the duration of smoking-cessation is important, with benefits amplified for longer periods. However, medium- to high-certainty evidence suggests interventions initiated <4 weeks before surgery even with multiple behavioral support sessions (with or without pharmacotherapy), and interventions commenced >4 weeks before surgery but with only 1 interventional component, increase quit rates but do not reduce complications. This overview provides the most up-to-date summary and quality assessment of systematic review evidence on the effectiveness of preoperative smoking-cessation interventions to prevent surgical complications. The evidence supports providing smoking-cessation interventions which include multiple behavioral support sessions and pharmacotherapy implemented at least 4 weeks before surgery to reduce postoperative complications. Consequently, anesthesiologists need to work with primary care physicians, consultants, and surgeons to optimize smoking-cessation interventions way in advance of surgery.